project overview and important points


Time series analysis can be used in a multitude of business applications for forecasting a quantity into the future and explaining its historical patterns. Here are just a few examples of possible use cases:

    Explaining seasonal patterns in sales
    Predicting the expected number of incoming or churning customers
    Estimating the effect of a newly launched product on number of sold units

An ARIMA (AutoRegressive Integrated Moving Average) model is a class of statistical models for analyzing and forecasting time series data:

    AR: Autoregression. A model that uses the dependent relationship between an observation and some number of lagged observations (p).

    I: Integrated. The use of differencing (d) of raw observations (e.g. subtracting an observation from an observation at the previous time step) in order to make the time series stationary.

    MA: Moving Average. A model that uses the dependency between an observation and a residual error from a moving average model (q) applied to lagged observations.

Each of these components are explicitly specified in the model as a parameter. A standard notation is used of ARIMA(p,d,q) where the parameters are substituted with integer values to quickly indicate the specific ARIMA model being used.

The parameters of the ARIMA model are defined as follows:

    p: The number of lag observations included in the model, also called the lag order.
    d: The number of times that the raw observations are differenced, also called the degree of differencing.
    q: The size of the moving average window, also called the order of moving average.

If our model has a seasonal component, we use a seasonal ARIMA model (SARIMA). In that case we have another set of parameters: P,D, and Q which describe the same associations as p,d, and q, but correspond with the seasonal components of the model. In particular, Statsmodel provides a Seasonal AutoRegressive Integrated Moving Average with eXogenous regressors model.


About Time Series analysis

    Time series analysis comprises methods for analyzing time series data in order to extract meaningful statistics and other characteristics of the data.
    Time series forecasting is the use of a model to predict future values based on previously observed values.

